Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) Q1 2024 Earnings Call Transcript February 1, 2024

Operator: Good day, and welcome to the Apple Q1 Fiscal Year 2024 Earnings Conference Call. Today's call is being recorded. At this time, for opening remarks and introductions. I would like to turn the call over to Suhasini Chandramouli, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.


Suhasini Chandramouli: Thank you for joining us. Speaking first today is Apple's CEO, Tim Cook; and he'll be followed by CFO, Luca Maestri. After that, we'll open the call to questions from analysts. Before turning the call over to Tim, I would like to remind everyone that the quarter we're reporting today included 13 weeks, whereas the quarter we reported a year ago included 14 weeks. Please note that some of the information you'll hear during our discussion today will consist of forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, those regarding revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, other income and expense, taxes, capital allocation and future business outlook, including the potential impact of macroeconomic conditions on the company's business and results of operations.

These statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or trends to differ materially from our forecast. For more information, please refer to the risk factors discussed in Apple's most recently filed annual report on Form 10-K and the form 8-K filed with the SEC today along with the associated press release. Apple assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. I'd now like to turn the call over to Tim for introductory remarks.

Tim Cook: Thank you. Suhasini. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call. Today, Apple is reporting revenue of $119.6 billion for the December quarter, up 2% from a year ago despite having one less week in the quarter. EPS was $2.18, up 16% from a year ago and an all-time record. We achieved revenue records across more than two dozen countries and regions including all-time records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific. We also continue to see strong double-digit growth in many emerging markets with all-time records in Malaysia, Mexico, The Philippines, Poland, and Turkey, as well as December quarter records in India, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and Chile. In Services, we set an all-time revenue record with paid subscriptions growing double-digits year-over-year.

And I'm pleased to announce today that we have set a new record for our installed base, which has now surpassed 2.2 billion active devices. We are announcing these results on the eve of what is sure to be a historic day as we enter the era of spatial computing. Starting tomorrow, Apple Vision Pro, the most advanced personal electronics device ever, will be available in Apple stores for customers in the U.S. with expansion to other countries later this year. Apple Vision Pro is a revolutionary device built on decades of Apple innovation and it's years ahead of anything else. Apple Vision Pro has a groundbreaking new input system and thousands of innovations, and it will unlock incredible experiences for users and developers that are simply not possible on any other device.

There is already so much excitement behind this product from reviewers, customers, and developers. They are praising everything from the incredible experience of watching a movie on a 100-foot screen to remarkable new machine learning capabilities like hand tracking and room mapping. We can't wait for people to experience the magic for themselves. Moments like these are what we live for at Apple. They're why we do what we do. They're why we're so unflinchingly dedicated to groundbreaking innovation and why we're so focused on pushing technology to its limits as we work to enrich the lives of our users. As we look ahead, we will continue to invest in these and other technologies that will shape the future. That includes artificial intelligence where we continue to spend a tremendous amount of time and effort, and we're excited to share the details of our ongoing work in that space later this year.

Now, let's turn to the results for the December quarter, beginning with iPhone. We are proud to report that revenue came in at $69.7 billion, 6% higher than a year ago. The iPhone 15 lineup has earned glowing reviews and been embraced by customers. The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus feature a gorgeous new design with color-infused back glass and contoured edges, Dynamic Island, A16 Bionic, and a new 48 megapixel camera system. And the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max set the gold standard for smartphones with a beautiful and lighter titanium design, industry-leading performance with A17 Pro and our most advanced camera system with the equivalent of seven pro lenses and the ability to record spatial video. Features like Emergency SoS and roadside assistance via satellite bring peace of mind to users when they travel, and I'm grateful for every note I've received about their lifesaving impact.

Turning to Mac. Revenue came in at $7.8 billion, up 1% year-over-year, driven by the strength of our latest M3-powered MacBook Pro models in spite of having one less week of sales. Just last week, we got to wish Mac a happy 40th birthday. When it was introduced 40 years ago, Mac changed everything, and through the years, it has done so again and again. Recently, we have been on a tremendous pace of innovation. Since the introduction of Apple silicon in 2020, we've been proud to offer our users unmatched performance and power along with a remarkable Neural Engine for artificial intelligence and machine learning. This past fall, we had an amazing launch of the latest generation of Apple silicon for Mac, M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max. These chips break new ground in power and performance empowering users to do more than they ever could before, whether they're making a musical masterpiece using the latest features in Logic Pro, or beating their high score in a graphics intensive game.

A favorite amongst students, business owners, artists, and video editors, our MacBook Pro lineup is the world's best pro notebook family. And iMac, the world's most capable and best-selling all-in one, is now faster than ever, thanks to M3. In iPad, revenue for the December quarter was $7 billion, down 25% year-over-year due to a difficult compare with the launch of the M2 iPad Pro and the 10th generation iPad during the December quarter last year and one less week of sales. iPad remains the most versatile, capable, and elegant tablet on the market today. It continues to be the go-to-device for students, creators, and more with customers loving iPad's incredible combination of portability and performance. Powerful apps like Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro for iPad allow video and music creators to unleash their creativity in new ways that are only possible on iPad.

iPad continues to push the boundaries of what's possible on a tablet. In Wearables, Home and Accessories, revenue came in at $12 billion, down 11% from a year ago due to a difficult compare with the launch timing of several products in this category and the impact of the 14th week last year. Across our latest Apple Watch lineup, we're enabling and encouraging our users to live a healthier day, while making Apple Watch even more intuitive to use. The new double tap gesture on Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 make it easier to answer calls, play and pause music or take a photo with iPhone. I've been deeply moved by the many touching stories about how features like a regular rhythm notification and fall detection helped Apple Watch users when they needed it most.

And for the first time ever, users can choose a carbon-neutral option of any new Apple Watch. Meanwhile, our AirPods lineup continue to be a holiday favorite. In Services, we set an all-time revenue record of $23.1 billion and an 11% year-over-year increase. Because we had one less week this quarter, this growth represents an acceleration from the September quarter, and we achieved all-time revenue records across advertising, cloud services, payment services and video, as well as December quarter records in App Store and AppleCare. Across our services, we're constantly growing our offerings to give users even more to love. With the redesigned Apple TV app, we've made it easier for subscribers to enjoy all their favorite shows, movies and sports, including Apple TV+ hits like Masters of the Air, Monarch, and Slow Horses.

We're proud to be a part of Martin Scorsese's Killers of the Flower Moon, a film that has moved audiences and earned more than 200 accolades including Best Film of the Year from the New York Film Critics Circle, nine BAFTA nominations, a Golden Globe win, and 10 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture. Across all Apple TV+ productions, we've now earned 2050 award nominations and 450 wins since we've introduced the service. We're also excited to have a new season of Major League Soccer kicking off this month. We're looking forward to seeing Lionel Messi return to the field and to following all of our favorite teams in what is sure to be an incredible season. And we're counting down to the Apple Music Super Bowl halftime show, featuring Usher.

Turning to Retail. In recent months, we opened three stores, including our 100th store in Asia-Pacific. Throughout the holidays, our team members pulled out all the stops to help customers find the perfect gift. And I know our U.S. team members are especially excited to begin demoing Apple Vision Pro for our customers tomorrow. At Apple, we live and breathe innovation. We are driven to pioneer new technology that can enrich our customers' lives, and we're just as intentional about showing up with our values and being a force for good in the world. February is Black History Month, and to honor it, we've launched our new Black Unity Collection, which includes the Black Unity Sport Loop band. This year's designs reflect a lasting commitment to working toward a more equitable world.

We also continue to do a central work through our Racial Equity and Justice Initiative, and we're proud to continue providing grants to organizations that are making a real impact in the world. In recent months, we've also taken significant strides in our environmental work. We're partnering with suppliers to bring more clean energy online for Apple production. We're using more recycled materials than ever before and more energy-efficient transportation than ever before. And each day, we are taking more and more steps toward becoming 100% carbon-neutral across all of our products by 2030. Apple is a company that has never shied away from big challenges. That's because we are grounded by a deep sense of purpose and guided by core belief in the transformative power of innovation.

A wide view of an Apple store, showing the range of products the company offers.
And so, we are optimistic about the future, confident in the long-term, and as excited as we've ever been to deliver for our users like only Apple can. With that, I'll turn it over to Luca.

Luca Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the December quarter was $119.6 billion, up 2% from last year. During the December quarter a year ago, two unique factors affected our results. First, we had an additional week in the quarter. And second, we had COVID-related factory shutdowns that limited iPhone supply. We estimate that the net impact of these two factors resulted in a 2 percentage point headwind to our revenue performance this quarter. We set all-time revenue records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific, and continue to see strong performance across our emerging markets with double-digit growth in the majority of the emerging markets we track. Products revenue was $96.5 billion, flat compared to last year, driven by strength in iPhone, offset by challenging compares for iPad and Wearables, Home and Accessories and one less week of sales this year across the entire portfolio.

Thanks to our unparalleled customer loyalty and very strong levels of customer satisfaction, our total installed base of active devices set a new record across all products and all geographic segments, and is now over 2.2 billion active devices. Services revenue set an all-time record of $23.1 billion, up 11% year-over-year. When we take into account the extra week last year, this represents a sequential acceleration of growth from the September quarter. We are very pleased with our Services performance in both developed and emerging markets with all-time revenue records in the Americas, Europe, and rest of Asia-Pacific. Company gross margin was 45.9%, up 70 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by foreign exchange.

Products gross margin was 39.4%, up 280 basis points sequentially, also driven by leverage and mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 72.8%, up 190 basis points from last quarter, due to a more favorable mix. Operating expenses of $14.5 billion were at the midpoint of the guidance range we provided and up 1% year-over-year. Net income was $33.9 billion, up $3.9 billion from last year. Diluted EPS was $2.18, up 16% versus last year and an all-time record. And operating cash flow was very strong at $39.9 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $69.7 billion, up 6% year-over-year. We set all-time records in several countries and regions, including Latin America, Western Europe, the Middle East, and Korea, as well as December quarter records in India and Indonesia.

Our iPhone active installed base grew to a new all-time high, and we had an all-time record number of iPhone upgraders during the quarter. Customers are loving their new iPhone 15 family, with the latest reports from 451 Research indicating customer satisfaction of 99% in the U.S. In fact, many iPhone models were among the top-selling smartphones around the world during the quarter. According to a survey from Kantar, iPhones were four out of the top five models in the U.S. and Japan, four out of the top six models in urban China and the UK, and all top five models in Australia. Mac generated revenue of $7.8 billion and return to growth, despite one less week of sales this year. This represents a significant acceleration from the September quarter when we faced a challenging compare due to the supply disruptions and subsequent demand recapture we experienced a year ago.

Customer response to our latest iMac and MacBook Pro models powered by the M3 chips has been great. And our Mac installed base reached an all-time high with almost half of Mac buyers during the quarter being new to the product. Also, 451 Research recently reported customer satisfaction of 97% for Mac in the U.S. iPad was $7 billion in revenue, down 25% year-over-year. iPad faced a difficult compare because during the December quarter last year, we launched the new iPad Pro and iPad 10 generation, and we had an extra week of sales. However, the iPad installed base continues to grow and is an all-time high with over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter being new to the product, and customer satisfaction for iPad was recently measured at 98% in the U.S. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $12 billion, down 11% year-over-year due to a challenging launch compare and the extra week a year ago.

This time last year, we had the full quarter benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. We continue to attract new customers to Apple Watch. Nearly two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter were new to the product, and the latest reports from 451 Research indicate customer satisfaction of 96% in the U.S. And in Services, we were very pleased with our double-digit growth, which was driven by the strength of our ecosystem. Our installed base is now over 2.2 billion active devices and continues to grow nicely, establishing a solid foundation for the future expansion of our Services business. And we continue to see increased customer engagement with our services.

Both transacting accounts and paid accounts reached a new all-time high, with paid accounts growing double-digits year-over-year. Also, our paid subscriptions showed strong double-digit growth. We have well over 1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, more than double the number that we had only four years ago. Finally, we continue to build on the breadth and the quality of our current services. From Oscar-nominated theatrical releases with Apple TV+ to more publications or News+ like The Atlantic and exciting new games on Arcade. Turning to Enterprise, we continue to see many business customers leverage Apple products to improve productivity and drive innovation. Target recently added the latest M3 MacBook Pro to their existing deployment of thousands of Mac’s, enabling employees across various departments to do their best work.

In emerging markets, Zoho, a leading technology company headquartered in India, offers its 15,000 plus global employees a choice of devices, with 80% of their workforce using iPhone for work and nearly two-thirds of them choosing Mac as their primary computer. With the upcoming launch of Apple Vision Pro, we are seeing strong excitement in Enterprise. Leading organizations across many industries such as Walmart, Nike, Vanguard, Stryker, Bloomberg, and SAP have started leveraging and investing in Apple Vision Pro as their new platform to bring innovative spatial computing experiences to their customers and employees. From everyday productivity to collaborative product design to immersive training, we cannot wait to see the amazing things our enterprise customers will create in the months and years to come.

Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with $173 billion in cash and marketable securities. We decreased commercial paper by $4 billion, leaving us with total debt of $108 billion. As a result, net cash was $65 billion at the end of the quarter, and our goal of becoming net cash-neutral over time remains unchanged. During the quarter, we returned nearly $27 billion to shareholders, including $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $20.5 billion through open market repurchases of 112 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 6 million shares in the final settlement of our 19th ASR. As usual, we will provide an update to our capital return program when we report results at the end of this quarter.

As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. And we expect foreign exchange to be a revenue headwind of about 2 percentage points on a year-over-year basis. As a reminder, in the December quarter a year ago, we faced significant supply constraints on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max due to COVID-19 factory shutdowns. And in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the constraints. We estimate that this impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter's total revenue last year.

When we remove this impact from last year's revenue, we expect both our March quarter total company revenue and iPhone revenue to be similar to a year ago. For our Services business, we expect a similar double-digit growth rate to what we reported in the December quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 46% and 47%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.3 billion and $14.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock payable on February 15, 2024, to shareholders of record as of February 12, 2024. With that, let's open the call to questions.

Suhasini Chandramouli: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Operator: Certainly. We'll go ahead and take our first question from Erik Woodring with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead.